Self-speculation (Layer-Skip Llama) (#34240)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/generation_strategies.md

Currently, only greedy search and sampling are supported with assisted decoding, and assisted decoding doesn't support batched inputs.
To learn more about assisted decoding, check [this blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/assisted-generation).

> #### Universal Assisted Decoding

Reviewer: (nesting was not fully right -- normal "speculative decoding" examples were under "Universal Assisted Decoding". Moved a few things around)

['Alice and Bob are sitting in a bar. Alice is drinking a beer and Bob is drinking a']
```

#### Prompt Lookup

Alternatively, you can also set the `prompt_lookup_num_tokens` to trigger n-gram based assisted decoding, as opposed
to model based assisted decoding. You can read more about it [here](https://twitter.com/joao_gante/status/1747322413006643259).

> #### Early Exit (Self-Speculative Decoding)

Reviewer: Good point! I'm going to rename it to self-speculative decoding, and mention that we support self-speculative decoding by specifying an exit layer

An LLM can be trained to also use its language modeling head with earlier hidden states as input, effectivelly
skipping layers to yield a lower-quality output. If the model you're using was trained to do early exit, you can pass

> `early_exit` (integer). In this case, the assistant model will be the model itself with early exit, hence

Reviewer: ✅

"self-speculative" name. Contrarily to vanilla assisted generation, here the assistant model shares the cache with the
model itself, since they are the same model.

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer

>>> prompt = "Alice and Bob"
>>> checkpoint = "facebook/layerskip-llama3.2-1B"

>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
>>> inputs = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt")

>>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

> >>> outputs = model.generate(**inputs, early_exit=4, do_sample=False, max_new_tokens=20)

Reviewer: ✅

['Alice and Bob are sitting in a bar. Alice is drinking a beer and Bob is drinking a']
```

#### Prompt Lookup

Alternatively, you can also set the `prompt_lookup_num_tokens` to trigger n-gram based assisted decoding, as opposed
to model based assisted decoding. You can read more about it [here](https://twitter.com/joao_gante/status/1747322413006643259).

#### Self-Speculative Decoding

> An LLM can be trained to also use its language modeling head with earlier hidden states as input, effectivelly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An LLM can be trained to also use its language modeling head with earlier hidden states as input, effectively
```

> skipping layers to yield a lower-quality output -- a technique called early exits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
skipping layers to yield a lower-quality output -- a technique called early exiting.
```

It'd be nice to clarify that this lower-quality output is the output from the self-speculative assistant, but the final generation will be the same as if no assistance had been used.

Reviewer 3: Adding a couple of lines as suggested by @pcuenca 

```suggestion
skipping layers to yield a lower-quality output -- a technique called early exiting.
We use the lower-qulity early exit output as an assistant output, and apply self-speculation to fix the output using the remaining layers. The final generation of that self-speculative solution is the same (or has the same distribution) as the original model's generation.
```

If the model you're using was trained to do early exit, you can pass

> `assistant_early_exit` (integer). In this case, the assistant model will be the model itself with early exit, hence

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`assistant_early_exit` (integer). In this case, the assistant model will be the same model but exiting early, hence the
```

"self-speculative" name. Contrarily to vanilla assisted generation, here the assistant model shares the cache with the

> model itself, since they are the same model, resulting in lower memory requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
model itself, since they are the same model, resulting in lower memory requirements.

In the snippet below, the self-speculative assistant is exiting after the first four layers.
```
